[OSDOCS-5240] Installer support to automatically create the MachineSets when installing in existing VPC on AWS w/Local Zones (#57427)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones_{context}"]
= Edge machine pools and AWS Local Zones

> An edge machine pool generates workers that run in AWS Local Zones locations. These workers differ from the those of the default compute pool in the following ways:

Author: ```suggestion
An edge machine pool is a worker node that runs in AWS Local Zones locations.
```

* AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.
* Latency between applications and end users are lower in Local Zones, and it may vary by location. There is a latency impact for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and availability zones.

> * Network load balancers do not support Local Zones subnets.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * The time for end users who are close to a metropolitan region to connect to applications that run in Local Zones can be as much as ten times faster than if those applications run in a parent region. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> :_content-type: CONCEPT

Author: ```suggestion
// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
```

[id="edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones_{context}"]
= Edge compute pools and AWS Local Zones

Edge worker nodes are tainted worker nodes that run in AWS Local Zones locations.

When deploying a cluster that uses Local Zones:

> * Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones

Reviewer: I can't find a specific reference for this, but generally when you have a bulleted list you want consistent ending punctuation. The other bullet items in this list have a terminal period, so I'd add one to the first bullet point for consistency.

Author: ISG has this, I believe.

> * Latency between applications and end users are lower in Local Zones, and it may vary by location. There is a latency impact for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and Availability Zones.

Reviewer: Change to "Latency between application and end users is lower..."

> * The cluster-network Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) is adjusted automatically to the lower restricted by AWS when Local Zone subnets are detected on the `install-config.yaml`, according to the network plugin.

Author: ```suggestion
* When Local Zone subnets are present in the `install-config.yaml` file, the installer adjusts the MTU based on the network plugin that is used in the cluster. The adjusted MTU value is determined by AWS requirements. Typically, it is between 1200 and 1300.
```

@mtulio Are there specific figures we could give? That would really make this easier to write. :) 

Peeping at the code for a sec, I'm only seeing 1200 and 1250. Is there more to it than that?

Reviewer 2: > Typically, it is between 1200 and 1300.

I think it's not totally safe to say that in a generic way as we require to be 1200 (OVN-K), 1250 (O-SDN), or even lower depending on the features enabled (ipsec, described on the `Important` section).

If you would like to be more direct, maybe you can replace `Typically`  by `For example, the adjusted values are 1200 for OVN-Kubernetes, and 1250 for OpenShift SDN network plugins, needing manual adjustment if more features is enabled.`

Check the 4.12 docs for more information, on where we needed to the user to patch those values manually:

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.html#installation-localzone-generate-k8s-manifest_installing-aws-localzone

Author: ```suggestion
* The cluster-network Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) is adjusted automatically to the lower restricted by AWS when Local Zone subnets are detected on the `install-config.yaml`, according to the network plugin. For example, the adjusted values are 1200 for OVN-Kubernetes and 1250 for OpenShift SDN. If additional features are enabled, manual MTU adjustment can be necessary.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Generally, the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) between an Amazon EC2 instance in a Local Zone and an Amazon EC2 instance in the Region is 1300. See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/local-zones/latest/ug/how-local-zones-work.html[How Local Zones work] in the AWS documentation. 

Reviewer: Give orienting information for a link first, so: "For more information about blah, blah, see the AWS documentation [link]."

Author: ```suggestion
Generally, the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) between an Amazon EC2 instance in a Local Zone and an Amazon EC2 instance in the Region is 1300. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/local-zones/latest/ug/how-local-zones-work.html[How Local Zones work] in the AWS documentation. 
```

The cluster network MTU must be always less than the EC2 MTU to account for the overhead. The specific overhead is determined by the network plugin, for example:

- OVN-Kubernetes: `100 bytes`
- OpenShift SDN: `50 bytes`

> The network plugin could provide additional features, like IPsec, that also must be decreased the MTU. Check the documentation for additional information.

Reviewer: IBM SG. Do not generally use "could". So this should be "...can provide additional features,..."

Also, for the doc reference, change to: "For additional information, see the documentation."

Author: ```suggestion
The network plugin can provide additional features, like IPsec, that also must be decreased the MTU. For additional information, see the documentation.
```

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones_{context}"]
= Edge compute pools and AWS Local Zones

Edge worker nodes are tainted worker nodes that run in AWS Local Zones locations.

When deploying a cluster that uses Local Zones:

* Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones
* Latency between applications and end users are lower in Local Zones, and it may vary by location. There is a latency impact for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and Availability Zones.
* The cluster-network Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) is adjusted automatically to the lower restricted by AWS when Local Zone subnets are detected on the `install-config.yaml`, according to the network plugin.

> +

Author: ```suggestion
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones_{context}"]
= Edge compute pools and AWS Local Zones

Edge worker nodes are tainted worker nodes that run in AWS Local Zones locations.

When deploying a cluster that uses Local Zones:

> * Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones

Author: ```suggestion
* Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones.
```

> * Latency between applications and end users are lower in Local Zones, and it may vary by location. There is a latency impact for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and Availability Zones.

Author: ```suggestion
* Latency between applications and end users is lower in Local Zones, and it may vary by location. There is a latency impact for some workloads if, for example, routers are mixed between Local Zones and Availability Zones.
```

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="edge-machine-pools-aws-local-zones_{context}"]

> = Edge machine pools and AWS Local Zones

Reviewer 2: @maxwelldb I think those sections are duplicated, we are explaining how to create the install-config.yaml installing in existing subnets in three different places:
- 1 [Creating the installation configuration file](https://57427--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.html#installation-generate-aws-user-infra-install-config_installing-aws-localzone) : generic, without explaining the edge compute pool
- 2 [The edge machine pool](https://57427--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.html#machines-edge-machine-pool_installing-aws-localzone)
- 3 [Create an installation configuration file that uses AWS Local Zones subnets](https://57427--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.html#install-creating-install-config-aws-local-zones_installing-aws-localzone)

I think we must focus on 2, the 3 must be removed, and I don't know if `1` is part of one shared module.

WDYT?

> An edge machine pool is a worker node that runs in AWS Local Zones locations.

Author: ```suggestion
Edge worker nodes are tainted worker nodes that run in AWS Local Zones locations.
```

> An edge machine pool is a worker node that runs in AWS Local Zones locations.

Reviewer 2: ACK

> * AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @yunjiang29 maybe we can replace the "normal" with a better reference of regular AZs

> * Amazon EC2 instances in the AWS Local Zone are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Region

> * AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.

Reviewer 2: @yunjiang29 yes. AWS docs mention `Availability Zones` and `zones in the Region` to refer to the regular zones. I think your suggestion fits better, rephrasing to something like:

> * Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones

> * AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.

Reviewer 3: @mtulio I'm good with your suggestion.

> * AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.

Author: ```suggestion
* Amazon EC2 instances in the Local Zones are more expensive than Amazon EC2 instances in the Availability Zones
```

> * AWS Local Zones resources are more expensive than those of normal availability zones.

Reviewer 2: ^ sgtm
